Jason Blazzard: Alright, I think we're good to go. Let's welcome everyone to see it soon to be W DD 234 Week seven. So in week seven we finally add another page to our weather site.
Jason Blazzard: This page will be a gallery page and what its intent is is for development specifications, you may or may not have this type of thing on a website, but it's a
Jason Blazzard: It's a gallery of pictures that you know different people have sent in for the region of Preston Idaho sugar city and whatever. The third one is
Jason Blazzard: And for this region. These pictures are put in there. You know, people are like to be photographers and they do a good job and
Jason Blazzard: It won't really matter what pictures you select to use, but you're going to create this page that's a gallery page.
Jason Blazzard: And I'll talk about that towards the end here, but we want to prep for it by first understanding. You know what we're doing with images still
Jason Blazzard: And obviously you are responsible to make sure that you optimize your images at a basic level, there won't be a lot of dictation to you about exactly using Source set or other certain methods because obviously we've presented a few things to you.
Jason Blazzard: But unless it specifies it in the instructions or requirements on a particular assignment. You're not really obligated to use one thing or the other.
Jason Blazzard: You are obligated to meet the 230 standards so that checklist.
Jason Blazzard: Now for me, I am not going through and grading all those this week, a few of you have my class have already received your video feedback. And you know what I was looking for.
Jason Blazzard: Really, I was focusing this last week on week six on the things that we added, but these, all these things are, you're responsible for
Jason Blazzard: Especially as you get to the end on week 11 where we have all the pages put together and the site done and it's worth a little bit more points because
Jason Blazzard: We expected you to go through the feedback over time and make corrections and updates and clarifications as needed, because you could reach out to your instructor. If there's something that's confusing to you about that.
Jason Blazzard: So we add another page now.
Jason Blazzard: There is no requirement. This week for you to update Preston seven specifically. But, like I just said, that would be a wise thing to do to kind of make corrections over time. So you're not bogged down in week 11 as you finish it up.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so let's look at just an overview of Week seven
Jason Blazzard: We talked about CSS grid review. So this is just an activity. There's no assignment associated with it, where we want you to see through a good source some more information about grid.
Jason Blazzard: In case you want to use grid further, you might as well get it down. Right. And so hopefully you learn some principles for going through that required reading in quotes.
Jason Blazzard: Now this other activity. You do have to submit. It's worth 10 points and you'll create a link to it as well as to your gallery page for this next week's on your assignment portal, you'll create links to both of these
Jason Blazzard: So let's take a look at that. Of course, if you're doing presentations. One of you may have chose the lazy loading of images and you've explained it very well. And so I would ask everyone
Jason Blazzard: Don't delay on looking at the developer forum and those presentations that are well done to help you, you know, solidify your thinking about what's going on here with progressive loading of images this overall idea.
Jason Blazzard: Let's just do this one together. Now there's some talk here. But overall, what we're talking about is not everyone has the same experience with your website and it's going to be loaded right so
Jason Blazzard: As it loads. We want to try to take advantage of some tools that we can use to present a meaningful image or content is better put
Jason Blazzard: To the users as soon as possible, the things that matter the most. Now one of these techniques that we can use is we can say, hey, let's hold off.
Jason Blazzard: On loading all the images because you as you now know if you've been studying your resources.
Jason Blazzard: Those images can take a lot of space. So why not delay them loading until we really need them that, you know, for example, the user start scrolling down because they're interested in additional content.
Jason Blazzard: Right. So that's the term where it comes from, lazy loading. You can read all about it.
Jason Blazzard: So higher up the idea is the idea of progressive loading. So we have a sign this reading, which we do need a quiz on
Jason Blazzard: That make sure you don't delay that idea about, okay, yeah. So in the same realm. What's this progressive loading mean
Jason Blazzard: Then there's a video about how to load late images leisurely so called
Jason Blazzard: And and we pick these and you could look at others. And of course, maybe you did the presentation or looking at a presentation. They may have used another resource or demonstrated some notes, it's all good. So I want to give you
Jason Blazzard: An overview of what we're going to do. So we're going to create this file called lazy load and then support it with an external CSS file.
Jason Blazzard: And the page will have the standard stuff in it and then five or six pictures that force the page that the user would have to scroll. So I'm just going to stack them on top of each other. Now this video down here does an overview of it all. And if you want to look at that do that.
Jason Blazzard: We don't need to hear this boring voice, you have my boring voice so
Jason Blazzard: You can see here the images are just selected to be large enough. And by the way, if you're ever watching these images.
Jason Blazzard: Are these, you should play them and web and document so you can follow along there where they talk about loading the JavaScript in and blurry and then with some basic CSS and know that we're setting a source first for the placeholder.
Jason Blazzard: And then resetting the attribute to get the real source of the image you can use your own images or you can use placeholder image sites that provide images where you just make sure that you follow the directions and they're a little bit long.
Jason Blazzard: Here, I think I used 200 400 even asked us to convey foreigner, but really that's not as important as making sure these features works. Okay, so this is what it will look like.
Jason Blazzard: And if you scroll down, just go down the image will be blurred and then take some time to load later but it won't load right away. So that's just the bottom line. So let's get started on this and I'm going to go ahead and do go through some of it and you can of course ask questions, but
Jason Blazzard: Let me get in here to create a new file called lazy load, I think, is what they wanted us to call it here in less than seven folder.
Jason Blazzard: And I'll create a new file and hater called lazy load. Now you may not have all these other things. But you are going to need them for your gallery page, you don't necessarily have to have a Preston seven though. Again, I would recommend it.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so we have our two files are going to be supported. So in our HTML page. Let's just create a standard interface. So I have a template here, I can just click and get a
Jason Blazzard: Some of the stuff I need in there. I'm not too worried about that. But definitely my style sheet is in the CSS folder and I'm going to use a lazy load. Okay, save that are good to go. Currently, my prettier. I'm putting in these closing
Jason Blazzard: Self closing whether or not stuff.
Jason Blazzard: On these these tags that don't need a closing tag it puts that in there if that bothers you. Otherwise, it shouldn't really bother you.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so let's go ahead and decide what we need in here. Well,
Jason Blazzard: I don't need all this stuff on my page. I'm not craving a page for the weather site. This is an independent activity page. So I'm just going to have a main section, I think, is all I need.
Jason Blazzard: And I need some script in there. So the thing I'm going to have in my main is an H1 and I'm just going to call it progressive
Jason Blazzard: loading of images. Okay, fine. Now I'll just get you started here. I'm going to go ahead and select the picture element and
Jason Blazzard: I am going to give it a source of images and list to see if I've downloaded it in here yet. I don't have it, so I'll have to find one called a placeholder, oops, oops, oops.
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: This call it placeholder. So what I'm going to create here is that each of these images all load with does something very, very generic and I am going to store it here locally.
Jason Blazzard: With me so that happens quickly and I'll do that on all the pictures that I put in here. I'm gonna save that and see what happens. Oh yeah, that's funny. I don't like that. And this one's going to be a picture of
Jason Blazzard: A kitten. So it could be more
Jason Blazzard: Elaborate there. So anyway, there's my image now.
Jason Blazzard: So far, so good. We're like, yeah, so what, let's just and I'm just going to do like three of them. Okay, I know that we won't see the action because it's really not going to scroll down the page, but we can go from there. So I need this placeholder image.
Jason Blazzard: I know I have one.
Jason Blazzard: Where do I have that in a different context. So I'm gonna have to get that
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so sorry I gotta go get it. I'll show you what it looks like, what I have
Jason Blazzard: I can go to this guy. My curriculum folder.
Jason Blazzard: Maybe in less than seven images and I have a placeholder know
Jason Blazzard: So that's what it looks like it's just a great thing. And I have some text, just so we know, but it is. That's all we're doing.
Jason Blazzard: Of course you would do something more advantageous possibly that small form, you know, in terms of size,
Jason Blazzard: Ready to load on your page to hold the place of the images, if that's what you need to do. And that's what we're doing here. Okay, so this thing will load first. So I'm going to copy this and I think I just have to go over to my projects into the lab and stick it in here.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, good. So now I have that in there. So there it is in my addresses. Okay, so when we look at this, just real quick. We now know that it's just going to look pretty generic and I just want even. I mean, there are 300 by 400 to hold it.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, now I need some CSS to drive this. So let's go ahead and drive it.
Jason Blazzard: And I already have my code that I want to use. For example, I want to use. I can just do my quick code. I know I just have it from a generic file or I set up the font. I really should set the font size. It's pretty common.
Jason Blazzard: That to be sis pixels. He was not this one. It really doesn't matter. So why spend time on it, but I'm going to go ahead and define that MIT main with a maximum with, I don't need all that within it.
Jason Blazzard: And I'm going to display them and flex. I'm going to use flex and the direction is in a column, and I'm going to align the items to the center. Since I'm flex I can use this property to do that. So I save that.
Jason Blazzard: And now they're like, you know, this is not wide enough
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so anyway, they they're centered. Now all I have to do is give the H1, a little bit of size. No, I don't. The image. I'm going to go ahead
Jason Blazzard: And do you know put a border on it. Put some padding filtered, a little bit. I'm going to blurt it out just to say, this is not the real image I should have sometimes that's a user experience that they're recognized by
Jason Blazzard: Okay, now I need to stop Joanne asked, what is it meant by having the CSS external now not
Jason Blazzard: At, are they not put in this yes but external means that
Jason Blazzard: This is an external reference to CSS and then I'll do some JavaScript. It'll be external reference. I'll give it a source.
Jason Blazzard: Meaning I don't just embed it in a script. And I don't just embed it as a style tag nor an inline stout because all know what
Jason Blazzard: Embedded means I could do in the body. I could do this, I can just type style and it'll work. Right. Okay, everyone got that and, you know, then the third level which is
Jason Blazzard: You could style any individual tag what you've been doing, possibly with implementing JavaScript, you could set your styles right in there.
Okay.
Jason Blazzard: Good sorry if I missed. These you might have to yell at me.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so now we're going to do some crazy stuff and you're like, I don't know what you're doing. I don't worry, we kind of walk through it with you in this in this particular
Jason Blazzard: Reading I mean all the details, but recognize that it might be a little bit difficult. So there's a little video overview of what's going on. And then I'm showing you a little bit here. Okay, so remember
Jason Blazzard: What we're going to do is this image placeholder has one backer and CO simple text like placeholder doesn't really matter what you use.
Jason Blazzard: Replace it with real images as soon as each images loaded from its source. So that will be the confusing part you're like, well, how do I do that well that's in the reading. And then the examples.
Jason Blazzard: Alright, so here's what we're going to do.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, we've got that there. Save it.
Jason Blazzard: We've got these images started in the end all have lots of them right but let's go ahead and show what we're gonna do is a data source and call it data source property.
Jason Blazzard: Okay attribute of this HTML and go ahead and load an image. Now, this could be an image that you have
Jason Blazzard: In your images folder, but I'm going to reference. Just because it'll slow things down a little bit to like a third party so I can use place getting
Jason Blazzard: And I can't remember what I made those what was 200 by 400 200 wide by 400 deep and if I just give it that address, then it will do that. Okay.
Jason Blazzard: Now on all of them. I wanted to do that. There's a better way to copy. I couldn't remember how to do that in Visual Studio code.
Jason Blazzard: But I can use other ones like
Jason Blazzard: Wow.
Jason Blazzard: I don't have to just force it to go into all these different directions and drive you nuts about how much
Jason Blazzard: Memory and we're using. So I can use place image. It's another sir free source of placeholder images and I'm going to use a nature pitcher.
Jason Blazzard: And let me give you one more just for fun, I pick some photos and the way it wants. It is the same way, like this, and I am gonna let it do whatever it wants.
Jason Blazzard: Whatever okay so
Jason Blazzard: You're probably wondering, okay well this is a new attribute for an image.
Jason Blazzard: And it's really cool because there's all sorts of things you can do with data on our elements. But what we're going to do is say, let's just hold those in the background and use some JavaScript to load them.
Jason Blazzard: If it's appropriate. And the way that it's appropriate is if it's seen on the page. Now the currently the way we have it if I save this. I don't know why I have all these things loaded. We see two of them. We don't see that third one, right.
Jason Blazzard: You know that the images where they're going to be at so far, we haven't told it to load this real ones yet but that's cool. Right, so that we can probably not load that one.
Jason Blazzard: I thought I told them to blur.
Jason Blazzard: I didn't finish that off. Right.
Jason Blazzard: There just images. Yeah. So, all he would just on the page, which is very dangerous. Don't do that. Right.
Jason Blazzard: But again, this page is just pretty small.
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: Where they three. Yeah, you probably have to do 300 400 but again that's
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, do it. If in case your instructor gets upset, but
Cary Taylor: You're
Jason Blazzard: Set to 00 the blur.
Cary Taylor: Correct.
Jason Blazzard: Oh yeah, thank you. Thank you.
Jason Blazzard: Alright, so let's go and and
Jason Blazzard: Let's do that.
Jason Blazzard: Let's go and write some script to help us do that. So I am going to go here and create an external script file that has the name of image.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, your keyboard is sideways.
Jason Blazzard: Okay image handling JS. Okay, and what am I going to do in here. Well, this code. I'm just going to copy over, but let's just write it out. The first thing to do is get all the images which are I am GS with they have that data source attribute
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so I'll create a constant because that won't change and I'll use camel casing to say images to load. I'll go, I'll set you know whatever name I want. Right. I don't need to say that anymore. Right, this is not special.
Jason Blazzard: This is up to you. But this is I'm going to go to the document and I'm going to query selector all because I want all of them, and it'll be
Jason Blazzard: It'll be a node list of them. And I'll say, go find image, but I have to qualify it with an attribute. So not just find all the images, even though that's all there are right.
Jason Blazzard: But they have this data source attributes. So that's how we put in the attribute. Right. And we'll get a node list and like an earring. Right. Think of it like that to node list.
Jason Blazzard: Now we can set up parameters for what we call our what this thing that you'll read about his inner sectional observer, which
Jason Blazzard: Basically this API will call to help us determine where we're at on the page. So we don't need to know much about it, but we're going to use it, it's all one word. If you want to get technical about how they named it
Jason Blazzard: So these are going to be the optional parameters. So I'll just say let's do some options here about
Jason Blazzard: And these are somewhat difficult to understand like the threshold, at what point do we start loading this and I'll say, you could say extreme right away all the way to wait till the whole image is going to be appear before I start loading it so we'll just start with zero here.
Jason Blazzard: And then I can talk also introduce I was like a margin property here.
Kim DeMille: So we get
Jason Blazzard: Okay, sorry. What
Kim DeMille: Thresholds not spelled right
Jason Blazzard: Oh, thank you. Yeah, eventually I'll get to that problem.
Jason Blazzard: I leave. Thank you. So I'll go here and I'll do I have to enter this in like I'll put it in like this for the top
Jason Blazzard: And I'm gonna be bad. I'm going to put in the measurements, just so we know what we're talking about 50 pixels into it at the from the bottom.
Jason Blazzard: So you could play with these numbers again these are optional. And there's assumed, I think if you leave it off thresholds zero and margins all zero.
Jason Blazzard: And again, I am not just pulling this out of the air and saying, Hey, go learn it. Go. You'll figure it out. No, we gave you the reading here and was will pull this up. If it's was this it. Yeah.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, that's my video. Right. So it talks in detail about each of those attributes. Okay. Are those settings and options.
Jason Blazzard: So you're like, where is it well.
Kim DeMille: It was in the video.
Jason Blazzard: I was in the video. Yeah, and wrong page. So watch the video.
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: Watch this video to you can help others.
Jason Blazzard: So play with those and see what happens. Again, you're gonna have to mimic a situation there. It won't just happen automatically. So this. The following is given, we're going to create a concept called load images and we're going to set up here, our function using an arrow function.
Jason Blazzard: Like this.
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: Alright, so this is given, we're going to talk to each image. Okay, and we're going to say, hey,
Jason Blazzard: Let's set the attribute
Jason Blazzard: Of source, right, we'd have to give it that argument for set attribute it wants to know which which attribute. Do you want to set
Jason Blazzard: And then what value do you want. So the value that comes next, it's showing you right here trying to help you. What value do you want, and it has to be a string, but ours is going to of course we're going to go to the image and get something that already exists.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, we're going to get an attribute and we all know what the attribute. It's called, it's called data source. So don't get confused that we'd have to put
Jason Blazzard: brackets around it. We only had to do that when we're using like a query selector a query selector all
Jason Blazzard: In that argument list to do that here we're just getting an attribute and we're naming what it is and stick it in. And as a string right here. So what does that do well. You can imagine what that does, right.
Jason Blazzard: Let's look at this, it goes to here and it says all the sources. Currently this, but it just told me to set the source differently and give it whatever values in here. So, that makes sense. You're like okay, I'm going to replace the placeholder with an actual image okay in that
Jason Blazzard: piece right there and then
Jason Blazzard: When it loads.
Jason Blazzard: Will do the unload will create an anonymous function here because we have to and just use URL pointer to say this is what we're going to go do we're going to go the image and we're going to remove an attribute
Jason Blazzard: Just because we don't need it and it shows in the video.
Jason Blazzard: And we don't need that data source right after we've set it to source. We're good. We're set. We're done. It's all good. So I think we've ended that and
Jason Blazzard: Into that line. So I know a little confusing and you're probably wondering well, how did you get this stuff you know images is too low, but you have them, but you haven't, you know, use that yet. And that is true. Okay.
Jason Blazzard: So here's the given code.
Jason Blazzard: We first what we should do is check to make sure it's allowed and if it is allowed. Then we'll create this called, you know,
Jason Blazzard: We're going to first check to see if the I O. The Intersection Observer is supported.
Jason Blazzard: And if it is allowed. So you use the F block. And that's really all I want you to think about because this stuff is given to you say, you know, how do I use to say this, this API. And it's like, oh yeah, this is how to use it and
Jason Blazzard: I know what if block does. You know, we don't want to try to force this if it doesn't happen. And again, there are examples of what you could do if it didn't.
Absurd
Jason Blazzard: support it.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so that's the key word for it, we just checked to say if that's in the window.
Jason Blazzard: That supports it.
Jason Blazzard: All right. And now we're going to use it. We're going to say, hey,
Jason Blazzard: Create a new instance of this object we have to do that.
Jason Blazzard: And we'll feed it
Jason Blazzard: The items right
Jason Blazzard: And
Jason Blazzard: Observer here.
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: All right. Yeah, I know this is lot. So this is just something that you would copy
Jason Blazzard: All right, so I think I've got that misplaced. We've got calls to this function. What do I do for each of them. I go to items for each item is a for each to loop through them all.
Jason Blazzard: And
Jason Blazzard: What are we going to do. We are going to
Jason Blazzard: Well, we just take each of these items. That's all we should have to do. Right. Yeah, that's all we need to do.
Jason Blazzard: Now let me just copy the code that they gave us where we call finally all these things that we've built
Jason Blazzard: So items is going through. So we're, you know, where do we get that right, that came in from here, new Intersection Observer. We're looking for those items. And for each one.
Jason Blazzard: We see if it's intersecting and we load images so load images as backup here it says, Yeah, I have this. This is what I'll do, and the item target has given
Jason Blazzard: Each each each image and then you can observe it. So that's what's given to us.
Jason Blazzard: Now on this is right here's where I stick those options that I set up above about when to do it. That's how it wants to be fed so often what you're doing.
Jason Blazzard: Is you're consuming these third party scripts of code, so they can be a little bit daunting like this, you're like, I'm not sure what all is going on.
Jason Blazzard: But at this point, we just want you to go through the experience or I do
Jason Blazzard: Others debate that, but I'm like, you have to because this is what you'll be doing, you'll be finding these options, say, Yeah, let's go ahead and employ this progressive loading and use the Intersection Observer. How do I do that. Well, I find that article I find the example and I
Jason Blazzard: properly put into the code in and to understand the details is maybe not so important right now. It could be over time, but just the general idea of what's going on is
Jason Blazzard: Good enough.
chad.rodee@getweave.com: You tell me about the devil parentheses around like items item.
Right here.
Jason Blazzard: Is this one you're one you're talking about
chad.rodee@getweave.com: Yeah, it doesn't see the closing bracket to that.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah. So what what's happening here is, you know, like on a for each loop you say okay for each, and then you normally say
Jason Blazzard: You give it a name and then you look at you know like if it's saying for each do the following function and this is what we have to feed it an item. Now, this will be a little bit confusing because you're like, Whoa, wait a second.
Jason Blazzard: You know, where did you do this, you know, where is this thing. And so we'll show that in a second. Because really, it just says here. If this is true, then we're going to be able to create this constant
Jason Blazzard: And it is created the structures made ready to be used, but we haven't even used it yet. We're not done yet.
Jason Blazzard: But I think back to your question on the for each we're actually feeding it a function. So this is an argument of the function. And we just use instead of creating, you know, a call out to the function we're using. And you know this.
Jason Blazzard: This arrow to say, hey, this is what we're doing in between here.
Jason Blazzard: Right, and then the whole thing is surrounded here. So it's actually between here.
Jason Blazzard: Alright so that was given to us what to do for them. Let's actually call it
Jason Blazzard: We're still in this block right
Kim DeMille: Can I just ask a quick question.
Kim DeMille: Yeah, okay. So when I did mine. It works. In the end, but it had an error when I when I was running it to start off with, and that was to do with up by the threshold where you have this little red zero
Kim DeMille: Yes, um,
Kim DeMille: It kept coming with an error to that until I put it in.
Kim DeMille: In linking it in quotes.
Jason Blazzard: Oh yeah, that's horrible is red. So that's a problem.
Kim DeMille: Okay, so I didn't know if that was part of your pretty code or if it was
Jason Blazzard: It's helping me out there and
Jason Blazzard: I forget what article that is it's right off of here.
Kim DeMille: So i mean i i had to put it in quotes. I just didn't know if
Kim DeMille: It was like
Kim DeMille: Gonna flag. If it, if that was right or wrong, but it seemed totally work when I put it in, in quotes.
Jason Blazzard: Right now, I was just going to show you the it's
Jason Blazzard: The API.
Anna B.: A little. It was in the progressive
Jason Blazzard: Right here, I see I had this is what I have
Oh, you said it was up here.
Jason Blazzard: So I thought I was fine doing that.
Jason Blazzard: Where did you say it was
Anna B.: Me just go a little bit lower. It's right under the blur. It's in the it talks about the observer there. Just keep going. Just a little more
Anna B.: Right there.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, but I don't see the options.
Anna B.: Here's all the code that oh yeah no the options. I didn't. I only heard I saw in the video with that.
Kim DeMille: Video. He didn't use it like that either. But until I put it
Kim DeMille: That's weird. It kept on not working so
Kim DeMille: Well, you can mark down for that or
Jason Blazzard: Mark down, we don't care about marking down we care about.
Kim DeMille: Mostly
Kim DeMille: I wanted it anyway. So I don't know.
Jason Blazzard: It's gotta work. Yeah. So let's, this looks bad, though.
It does.
Jason Blazzard: Why does it look bad.
Kim DeMille: coronavirus it's terrible.
Kim DeMille: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: So you say, do that. And that's happy. Oh, we'll see.
Kim DeMille: Yeah.
Jason Blazzard: I like that zero. Well, let's finish this puppy, though.
Jason Blazzard: Last thing we I mean we're really we're creating all these things. And we're like, where do you ever use them. I use that one here, but where do you use this image observer, you set it all up.
Jason Blazzard: And you created these crazy names like each item and items and how you feed it, that would be everyone's question.
Jason Blazzard: So we finally say, hey, this is working. And we set up those options. Let's call images to load which we've set up to be this notice so
Jason Blazzard: All the way back up here. We created a node list. This contains all the images. It was hey let's process this so we'll use a for each one, since it is a node minutes
Jason Blazzard: And we'll send it whatever name we want. It's like every x, we could make this x. If we wanted to every but it's like every image in this. Let's do the following. Think about like that. So the more we exposure to that, the better.
Jason Blazzard: Of course, don't do that.
Jason Blazzard: And then we just say, Hey, so what we'll do is we'll use that image observer, the way we set it up.
Jason Blazzard: And we'll use a built in method in there. So it's like it. This is an object that we call that we don't really know the inner workings of except how to use it by documentation.
Jason Blazzard: So this, this class has these things in it right methods that are built in functions and one of them's observe and we have to send it each image.
Jason Blazzard: And so really what's happening, it is that's where it receives them is items. There's the observer. Did I yeah that's the way they called it right
Jason Blazzard: throws me off a little bit, but I'll keep it like that. And then this other parameters items. So that's actually every image.
Jason Blazzard: So it's a node list and we're going to march through each one and we're going to check them. And we're going to do load images by basically replacing each of those by that. So a lot of work to get that done, but it's in play for us. Now the else branches to says
Jason Blazzard: Well, you, you can do this. So what we're going to do is just load images. And what will that do
Jason Blazzard: Well, it doesn't support the Intersection Observer. So we're nearly not concerned about all these options. We had, we're just going to load the images.
Jason Blazzard: The best weekend. That makes sense. We're like, we don't care how long it takes. We're just not going to get the real effect from the inner sectional observer, because the intersection is not supported by the browser which like Internet Explorer probably doesn't support it.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so that's ugly, right, but you're like, Hey, I just copied that and I'm good.
Jason Blazzard: However, we probably should do some stuff here. We don't have to do
Jason Blazzard: Are we good. Everyone good about it.
Yeah.
Jason Blazzard: I'll see if I can make it happen.
Jason Blazzard: I'd already did it.
Jason Blazzard: So brother Blizzard is going to fail. So we'll refer to my video.
Jason Blazzard: We'll just go here.
Jason Blazzard: No errors. So someone helped me did it load real fast. Is that my problem. Now, it didn't load them all did something though.
Jason Blazzard: And the video I show you in the main each of these pictures being replaced by that. So I messed something up.
Jason Blazzard: Easy to do
Jason Blazzard: Yikes.
quotes around the 00
Jason Blazzard: Yes, thank you. Oh, Kim have that she's like you, you dumb. Had I told you that was a problem. I was hoping this thing would bark at me, though, you know, for the sources. Oh, that's interesting. How can this not loading up
Jason Blazzard: You little doggy. What am I doing wrong here. Oh, I know. Brother browsers don't know. I never even referenced it
Jason Blazzard: JavaScript image handling. So that was my clue right there. I did a little. I don't even. It doesn't even know what to do, is like you're not telling me, do you have just shown some pictures and
Jason Blazzard: So let's save that and we'll go back to that air. I hope it's in there. Now you have some warning, but there they are. Whoa, I gotta fix that.
How can I fix that.
Jason Blazzard: I don't want this.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah I want back like that. Maybe I didn't want that placeholder blurred and I'll just all blur out these to show that they're working overtime. So this is how I create a selector for particular images, just like I did with the query selector all and I will do some CSS here.
Jason Blazzard: I'll blur it and just give it a little bit guys don't need to go crazy right
Jason Blazzard: Remember that measurement is based upon its parent font size.
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so we got to slow this puppy down
Jason Blazzard: And there's, you know, now I could see that that's getting there. I do have these but it probably unrelated yeah cross site whenever I'm using third party doesn't like it because they're not secure and I just say go away.
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: This
Jason Blazzard: Let's slow it down. So what I can do is go into the device toolbar and I could say, I'm in a low end or a mid tier and reload this page.
Jason Blazzard: Maybe it'll work.
Jason Blazzard: Maybe it there so
Jason Blazzard: Eventually, see that and I scroll down that pictures there, but we're on a low end. So it's like
Jason Blazzard: Let's do mid tier
Jason Blazzard: reload it
Jason Blazzard: And watch us it watch down here. Oh, that's too soon. Huh. So you have to decide using these attributes right here how fast you want it to load. So that's again explained in the video to and I'm showing it here, you can play with that.
Jason Blazzard: What I'm doing wrong here, adding stuff.
Jason Blazzard: All who added the space.
Jason Blazzard: All right.
Jason Blazzard: Clear as mud. So you just have to create something like that. And if you're frustrated the codes provided. I don't think we type it out for you though.
Jason Blazzard: But it is in here. You'll find it.
Jason Blazzard: And then you probably want to translate it to your actual page for your gallery, because we also want those too lazy load.
Jason Blazzard: Alright so I'm sure there'd be lots of questions.
Cary Taylor: One on the bottom of that. Thanks, a third one up. You're supposed to lazy load and then also do it when you scroll down, so we set up the first couple pages.
Cary Taylor: Do are
Cary Taylor: Like that each in blurred.
Jason Blazzard: Alright. The blurred just helps us realize that it's loading. You know, it went through the process.
Jason Blazzard: And eventually loads and that let's watch that, just like we do in the video, just so we can see what's happening. So there the sources finally place kitten. Right. What happened to my original placeholder or watch this. Hopefully, select this puppy.
Jason Blazzard: So there's that.
Jason Blazzard: It's too fast. But what happens is that original CSS applies to it takes away the blur. I hope everyone saw that, like, if it's an image. There's no blur.
Jason Blazzard: But the data source blurs it. But as soon as that's taken away. It's like, yeah, we're not learning that anymore. It's, it's goofy. I know, because you're like a lot. It was blurred imager.
Jason Blazzard: And this that's just one way to handle it in the end it's there. But yeah, if I scroll down, we're not showing it until we're at a convenient point again. I'm in a mid tier mobile. So that loads. I'm just online and do this.
Jason Blazzard: Should be faster. Yeah, little faster on real time of what my machine allows
Jason Blazzard: Yeah yeah
Jason Blazzard: OK, so
Jason Blazzard: The gallery. And I want to show you some hints about this. So that's just an activity, right, just go through that and
Jason Blazzard: Let's look at the assignment.
Jason Blazzard: So that's right here.
Jason Blazzard: So you're going to add the gallery seven
Jason Blazzard: And you'll have nine images and the recent we've chosen nine for developmental reasons so that you will have to scroll, because in a large screen. These can go across.
Jason Blazzard: Okay so small view you stack them all of them in a medium view it's two columns and three columns in the large view. So you could choose any layout method, you want to use. But I would suggest the easiest would be grid.
Jason Blazzard: The images must not load until the user scrolls. So you really can't test that always that you do something like we just did. Now for the gallery page and you
Jason Blazzard: You know you scroll through it and have that same effect. The other little thing is they have the box shadow effect, which is just like this when your mouse passes over it only in the large view. By the way, do you put this border around it. I think it's only in the large view.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, large view.
Jason Blazzard: Okay. Clear as mud. Those are the things you're doing. So where do you get your pictures. Well, that's up to you, but I want to talk to you about pictures.
Jason Blazzard: Like, here's a problem with these pictures. These are like temples that, you know, who cares.
Jason Blazzard: But they're all different sizes because I'm using a third party source. The churches site to feed me their temple pictures and I'm not caring about
Jason Blazzard: What they are. I'm just using them as 100% within their container. So there's a couple of lessons here really Oh with your images, you'd, you know, to solve that, because I could go through here and say, hey,
Jason Blazzard: I want these images to be, you know, you see some problems they're there, they're not expanding their containers and that's because of why
Jason Blazzard: Let's pick the pace in tempo here right here. It's 800-538-5823 remind you that I am killing this networking. I hope the instructor did this like tested how much you're loading or something similar.
Jason Blazzard: And said, yeah, you're at 17 megs, that's not allowed. How much do we allow
Jason Blazzard: 500 but for these image galleries, we're a little bit lenient I am but check with your instructor, if they're going to check that.
Jason Blazzard: Because otherwise you'd have to really knock down the quality of all nine of those images to meet that 900 that 500 kilobyte. I mean, we're at 70 mix.
Jason Blazzard: So this example I'm giving here, put it right in your mind. I'm gathering. I'm just, I'm just chunk in the network. I'm going and hitting that
Jason Blazzard: Third party serves over and over again. So it's not like what you should be doing. You'll have your images refined sized correctly. Again, don't make them any bigger than what you need the maximum size you need
Jason Blazzard: Not like what I'm doing. That's 800 by 553 and I'm knocking it down to 396 I because I'm using 100% with which is just a cheap way of doing it.
Jason Blazzard: And you have to think about this deeply. You have to say, oh, yeah, you make 100% with because it's contained within this anchor tag, but that doesn't have a width.
Jason Blazzard: And is contained within the section called with a class most and because I have a with well
Jason Blazzard: It's in a flex column in you know in there. But that's just these items, this, this and this. What about the grid. Oh yeah, it's a grid.
Jason Blazzard: That's gonna force. It's with. So if I just say 100% here. It's not going to exceed what its parent or grandparent is decided it's with it's going to be maximum
Jason Blazzard: By the way, I use a display grid here because I'm using I'm using the advantage of grid to be responsive without me doing a lot of work. I'm not gonna
Jason Blazzard: I'm not doing a lot of work. I just say hey yeah just make this whole big diff here within my main I have this H2 and this div.
Jason Blazzard: Let's make this whole big give a grid, and then I will put in the columns template comes as a repeat of however many I need based upon auto fit.
Jason Blazzard: And the size. Wow. The minimum, you can use a min max and say the minimum. It could be as 320 the maximum that it can be is one fractional unit, just to fill up the allowable space.
Jason Blazzard: Then it does whatever it needs. Now you guys always associated with your assignment, you're like well you on the you can't the assignment.
Jason Blazzard: Right. But that's a different ballgame. But it's the same principle. What is the assignment want you to do probably create a template with three fractional units for the large and two for the medium and one for the small so much easier. Right. But again, look at these pictures.
Jason Blazzard: How can I solve them. Well, I could say all images.
Jason Blazzard: Was the height auto I could change it right there. I'll go do that. And I could say, hey, they're all just to force it 200 pixels. Well, this is a bad idea. Now it looks better. They fit right no fit in there, same size even Salt Lake. But why is it a bad idea.
Jason Blazzard: Because bringing me. I'm going to roll over in his grave. He's rolling over right now is that are just digging through turn that piece down but
Jason Blazzard: I guess they're really not. They're just digging all the way under but it looks pixelated. So you got to be careful about aspect ratio and stuff. That's why you
Jason Blazzard: Edit the photos beforehand in your editing software and get them the way you want them in. Yes, you can go down from that maximum size that won't be a problem, so long as you don't create this weird aspect ratio by setting the width and the height, are you crazy just create an auto
Jason Blazzard: Is that clear as mud.
Jason Blazzard: All right, good. Mary talked about the number one temples in here. This is the number one temple in the world. All right, let's go back.
Jason Blazzard: To this
Jason Blazzard: Questions about this.
Anna B.: Yes. Oh.
Anna B.: Sorry, did you explain again how you want to in the larger view. What's only in the large view. And then what's in the small as far as like are the captions only in the large fee and not in the small or how
Jason Blazzard: I'm captions can be in every
Anna B.: View. Okay.
Jason Blazzard: I think we say you have to have captions, do we
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, we do. We do, we do.
Jason Blazzard: We do so I'm I'm inclined to use what you call a figure. You don't have to because it has a natural fig caption with it.
Jason Blazzard: But no, our this person has style that so it feels like they're together right so in the large view and all views you have all of this. It's just that the large view, it looks like this.
Jason Blazzard: In the medium view. I hate to use this because this has nothing to do with it. And the medium view it's two columns right in the small view it's one column.
Anna B.: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: And this will really help you with your lazy loading right because it you know you can lazy load all those down.
Jason Blazzard: By the way, I'm going to go to Vernal Utah I've decided it's only four hours away.
Jason Blazzard: All right.
Anna B.: Thank you.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, good questions because it might be a little we don't show a video of what it should look like. But this is showing the large view in. Yeah.
Jason Blazzard: No large view again it should only view that you should have the box shadow property applied.
Anna B.: For the hover.
Jason Blazzard: Hover yeah
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Anna B.: But we can have a shadow, like always, and then just have it more shadow for the hover. Is that kind of
Jason Blazzard: Well who's close to you and
Anna B.: Dr Cheney's
Anna B.: For the Cine
Jason Blazzard: Oh, he'll. I don't know.
Jason Blazzard: Okay.
Jason Blazzard: I'm sure it's fine. I don't know how picky his and his assessments.
Jason Blazzard: You should be okay.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, good questions.
Jason Blazzard: Now you're going to help your competitive is in the less classes with your posts about how to put in this Intersection Observer right
Anna B.: I already did.
Jason Blazzard: Oh yeah, well I and I know you do.
Jason Blazzard: Your good Alex. I'm going to go to your page as the
Jason Blazzard: Orientation images matter, do they
Jason Blazzard: Can they be vertical and explain that to me, Miriam. What does that mean vertical
Jason Blazzard: But this is we want three columns. Right.
Miriam: Right, right. Just like the example you did with the kittens. They are in tennis. It's hurry Santo now I'm in his birthday concert of horizontal
Cary Taylor: portrait to landscape.
Miriam: Exactly. Yeah, that's it.
Jason Blazzard: Oh, doesn't matter. No.
Jason Blazzard: It's up to you. It's just typically whether pictures are in landscape, but it doesn't matter. It's up to you. I would just suggest that they all kind of have the same size and general format that will make your life easier.
Miriam: Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, good question, Alex. Should we go to your page.
Yes.
Alex: Yes, please.
Jason Blazzard: All right. And what, what are you going to show us through this page.
Alex: I just want to say if is a sub k why I'm doing
Jason Blazzard: This is like f work. So you would get zero points on mine.
Jason Blazzard: I'm just kidding. Alex
Jason Blazzard: You know, it's beautiful. I do this, I do this, I go into inspect I check it out.
Jason Blazzard: I see that it does this. They're all the same size.
Jason Blazzard: Notice that this is active. That's good.
Jason Blazzard: Go in here and audit.
Jason Blazzard: Let's do the mobile audit.
Jason Blazzard: Beautiful work. I think you're a little crunched on your menu.
Jason Blazzard: We just checked this. Oh, you got a problem.
Jason Blazzard: So you got a problem on this logo.
Jason Blazzard: That would be minus one in my book, so I go here. This image is 128 by 128 you then go change it to 100 by 117
Jason Blazzard: I know it's not the gallery, but this is something that's because you put it with on it, which is fine but you changed units you went to from 65% to a fixed pixel again not might be fine, but I usually say Lou, warning, warning, warning and then let's see why is the height gone crazy
Jason Blazzard: There's no height set right, am I missing it.
Jason Blazzard: No height, somehow you lose the aspect ratio. So it's 128 this should be 100 by 100 when it comes out of there and it's probably because it's something else that you have. Now, why do you have to tell it that
Jason Blazzard: You don't
Jason Blazzard: Naturally box out level elements with no other notation are 100% so I could take that off. You see door.
Jason Blazzard: I'm looking for a reason why
Jason Blazzard: You're
Jason Blazzard: I don't see it. I don't see it, Alex. Somewhere in here, you're
Jason Blazzard: You're doing it and I can't see it.
Jason Blazzard: You see how it goes from 128 to 100 by 117 it should be 100 by 100. I don't know why it's trying to fill up the space.
Get this going here.
Jason Blazzard: Huh.
Jason Blazzard: I don't know. So, in your case, we'll just put height.
Jason Blazzard: And it still doesn't change. It did it.
Jason Blazzard: That's so bad, but that's the reason that Bart.
Jason Blazzard: It barked at you.
Jason Blazzard: That's the correct aspect ratio.
Jason Blazzard: I don't know, though, Alex. I mean, is this Alex Yeah. Alex, I don't know why did that, though, because you're not telling it to be a certain height.
Jason Blazzard: Which is usually the default is auto and when I put auto it didn't really adjust it so that's a mystery to me. So I'll just force it since. That's it. That's an easy calculation. It's a square
Jason Blazzard: Good job on this, though. Beautiful. And yeah, you can make your choices, the way you want.
Jason Blazzard: It. Anything else on this. Oh, let's look at network just so everyone's not freaking out.
Jason Blazzard: 612. So, you know, to me, You better check with your instructor. I'm just still okay with that because I'm like, yeah, it's a gallery page people know
Jason Blazzard: It's loaded a bunch of images and of course we could expand upon this and of course make each of these clickable and blow up in the full screen. We don't even do that a lot of people want to do that. So if you want to do that, then
Jason Blazzard: Go figure it out. Do it. That's worth your time. That's what you bet you don't have to do that.
Jason Blazzard: Oh yeah, the thing I was worried about is this is a little tight, you must make that a bigger yeah it's a bigger font.
Jason Blazzard: So be careful about I know I'm getting really picky really picky.
Jason Blazzard: I almost would reduce this size, so it doesn't scroll down, because that's happening there again.
Jason Blazzard: What the heck
Jason Blazzard: Yeah look at that 100 by something is, I love the browser needs to figure that out.
Jason Blazzard: It's what is that
Why
Jason Blazzard: He
Jason Blazzard: You say display flex but
Jason Blazzard: You say justify
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, this flex says I'm going to fill up the space if you just put the height as 100 you're gonna be okay but
Jason Blazzard: Yeah.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah yeah
Jason Blazzard: Okay, good, good, good, good.
Jason Blazzard: Job, Alex. Okay, so
Jason Blazzard: Oh yeah. Does everyone know the new
Jason Blazzard: Password to the church.
Jason Blazzard: Why is it referencing the Leona, that's your thing to reflect on everybody knows the church Wi Fi is LDS Church.
Jason Blazzard: Right, that's the name
Jason Blazzard: And y'all know the password to get on the Wi Fi and every church is what pioneer 47 what 74. Yeah. Yeah, well it's pioneer
Jason Blazzard: That's okay. Joe, I'm just kidding. So everyone knows what that was about. Right, right. What does it mean eight teen 47. So what's the new one. It's all about the Leona. And this scripture right here.
Jason Blazzard: And of course we have to get rid of LDS
Jason Blazzard: I think next week. You can no longer type lds.org
marieroe: I think you can't already in some places.
Jason Blazzard: It's beautiful. Huh.
Jason Blazzard: Now it for us. And I'm just kidding, you always will be able to get it.
Jason Blazzard: I'm just, just kidding least I don't have to type the Church of Jesus Christ, because if we did
Jason Blazzard: Cuz that's what I want. You're going to get this third party church.
Jason Blazzard: Well, if you go to it. Anyway, I'll stop.org yeah these people have it right because they called it The Church of Jesus Christ registered trademark. We're like, Dang it. Well, of course, we're Latter Day Saints, but we would have loved up on that one. Wait a second, wait a second.
Jason Blazzard: Looks like they put up the sacred grove there.
Jason Blazzard: What, wait a second. We took that over
Jason Blazzard: That's not legal.
Jason Blazzard: Anyway, I better stop.
Jason Blazzard: You know,
Kim DeMille: I'm messing up the ones that are out of Nauvoo on a the reorganize door.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah, but I thought it was completely different.
Anna B.: Their community of Christ, the one and not do I thought that's what 30 months.
Kim DeMille: It was name.
marieroe: It's the same church they just switched over there.
Yeah.
Jason Blazzard: Yeah.
Jason Blazzard: There's lots
marieroe: A few years ago.
Jason Blazzard: Just look at the 16 churches and independence.
Kim DeMille: So, did I miss. Did you ever actually tell us what the new password was
Jason Blazzard: I'm not supposed to, I think, so I won't. Did someone type it don't type it.
marieroe: It's a news article you can look it up, or at least I got it as a letter.
Kim DeMille: It's a look
Kim DeMille: You can dangle. The carrot in front of me and not tell me. So tell me,
Jason Blazzard: Here it is. I just told you what the Scripture is is the password and it's now called What's the new. It's called Leona right the Wi Fi networks called Leona. And then it's a scripture. So Alma 3738
Kim DeMille: Thank you.
Cary Taylor: I think if we were to have to type in the whole Scripture we would remember it better.
Jason Blazzard: Password. Yeah, let's do that. That's great.
Kim DeMille: Jesus Christ.
Kim DeMille: Yeah yeah
Jason Blazzard: Okay, so anyway.
Jason Blazzard: This is fun stuff too, though, you can do shape outside if you want it. You could probably do a lot more object fits pretty cool. You should watch this lady. If you want to do lot more design stuff. It's really interesting. She works with Mozilla
Jason Blazzard: Oh good, Chelsea. So I think we've given her you some of her videos already so you might dig a little bit deeper if you're interested.
Jason Blazzard: If you don't know an API means to the application programming interface on interfaces, a programming term talks about this contract between
Jason Blazzard: Two parties and what it will do, even though it's not the class itself. It's built in to there and a lot of times we just consume them and will will continue to consume. Well, we should will consume what we call a weather API that's free to give us the live weather for our site.
Jason Blazzard: This is a another example of lazy loading that using a little bit different methods. So you're probably not interested in it. But anyway, it's here you'll find them all over the web.
Jason Blazzard: But really they're doing similar things.
Jason Blazzard: But you could find that in my code pinned
Jason Blazzard: All right. What came out today in the church.
Jason Blazzard: The new handbook. So you have everything can look at
Cary Taylor: Me gospel living app is out to
Jason Blazzard: Oh yeah and that's good one right
For the youth.
Jason Blazzard: Now, Rick, do you work for the church was Rick and in this list.
Might have left no Rick there you're
Jason Blazzard: Over YouTube, don't you, and what aspect, tell us again.
marieroe: I'm a church operator. So anytime you call into the church 24 hours a day 365 days a year we answer the phone.
Jason Blazzard: You physically go somewhere to do that or at home. Yeah.
marieroe: I go down to the church headquarters office.
Downtown
Jason Blazzard: Wow. Wow, very cool, very cool. Yeah.
marieroe: So we talked to all departments. There are lots of departments in the church.
Jason Blazzard: call in and you for them on or answer your question.
marieroe: Yeah, after hours we
marieroe: You to the, I mean, we take calls from all over the world and
marieroe: When the offices are closed. We still forward people on like missionaries when they miss flights or emergencies that happen.
Jason Blazzard: Right. Right. Yeah, good.
Jason Blazzard: So let's
Jason Blazzard: I'm just going to open up for questions. I'll shut down the recording here real quick.
Jason Blazzard: Just so anyone that wants to ask a question. You don't want it recorded can do so. So if anyone has something else. Let's go ahead and here
Jason Blazzard: Let's stop this.
Jason Blazzard: Chat. You work for the church.